That is the best thing we do is we help lead people to Jesus Christ being brought from death to life, amen?
Man, I'm excited for this morning.
Man, I was about to cry.
I can't do this already.
Man, cool.
It's nine o'clock in the morning.
Nine o'clock, how are we feeling?
Man, I'm excited.
Man, week three of our series, my one word as Jimmy said, and my name is CJ.
I get to be the student pastor here and young adult small repeater.
Were we at young adults?
Yeah, that time you had it.
Where were you earlier?
Shout out to Michael, shout out to Michael's.
Man, I've just been, I've loved this series so far.
Pastor Chris kicked off this series in week one with his one word being less.
If you haven't seen that message, please go back and watch it.
But John 3.30 was a great way to end it, especially going into this new year.
He must become greater and I must become less.
And then I wasn't here last week, but I watched Kim speak on her one word, which is meditate.
She took us a blast in the past to our Moses and Joshua series, but her big idea was when we meditate, we hear the word of God speak.
And I need to apologize for Chris Edmondson real quick, because it's his fault.
I know she brought it up, but the whole band thing, the whole wristband thing, he said it was $10.
He's a liar, okay?
He did not look before he said that, but it's okay, it's all right.
But to start off this week, I want to tell y'all a story of just a random Wednesday night.
Can I tell y'all a story?
OK, I just want to make sure.
All right.
So it was back in early December 2013.
Some of you were like, man, what?
I was in middle school.
So yes, you're welcome just to make some of y'all feel just a little old.
OK, I'm sorry.
Man, and here.
Here's the thing about December 2013.
2013 was good here.
Everything was going well.
I was doing all right in school, which meant that I had video game time during the week.
Praise Jesus for it, right?
I don't recall if my sister and I were fighting at the time, but honestly, probably.
And then it being a Wednesday night, man, Wednesday nights I was growing such a love.
I was about to go see my best friend in the whole world, Riley.
He'll probably be here in second service.
And now he's back in town, praise God for it, man.
But I remember during this time, my love for Wednesday nights was growing with every remix.
that I went to.
So back in the day, inside out was an inside out.
It was called a remix.
And it still is to this day the best night of the week.
And so with every Wednesday I was going, it was awesome.
But the thing was, I was the annoying middle schooler that made the terrible jokes and did the stupid things.
But the people at remix made me feel like I belong there.
It's something that I've kept going as I've taken over inside out.
Because every student, every person who walks in, maybe they don't behave like we do, but they belong here.
And so that's that is exactly what grew my love for inside for remix.
Excuse me back in the day.
And then just everything.
Life was good.
I had nothing to complain about.
It was after Thanksgiving.
So season of gratitude.
Y'all know the deal, right?
I knew what I was thankful for.
My parents were doing good.
Life was good.
And then that fateful day happened on December 4th, 2013.
It was two days before my dad's birthday.
Everything seemed normal.
My dad was dropping my sister and I off for remix.
And you could just tell in that car ride that something was wrong.
Something was off.
I hadn't heard from my mom that day, which isn't not normal for Wednesdays.
Usually she's working late and my dad's the one dropping us off for remix.
But man, just something felt different.
It was right before we got dropped off that my dad told my sister and I that my mom's going to Puerto Rico in the morning.
And I'm like, what?
My mom's a teacher.
School's not out for like two more weeks.
Why are we not going?
I'm trying to go to Puerto Rico.
I'm not trying to go to school tomorrow.
What?
What's that all about?
And you know, my sister and I are upset.
Like I don't want to go to school.
I want to be at the beach.
Okay, December, nay, nay.
All right.
And so we were confused and then finally my dad told us more of the story.
My grandma got a brain tumor and they had no idea what was coming.
It was completely out of nowhere and they didn't know if she was going to make it.
Wow, dad.
Thanks for dropping this bomb on us before I'm going to my favorite place ever.
What do you mean they're not sure she's gonna make it?
That's my grandma.
There's no way.
That means she'll be the first grandparent to go.
This is 12 year old CJ.
I don't think I'm ready for that.
Sure enough, the next morning my mom got on the first flights she could to get to Puerto Rico.
6 a.m. at B&A, I say nay nay.
No, I hate that airport, but that's okay, it's gross.
So this week I was traveling to Dallas for work.
And so I was preparing for the message on Sunday.
I had to call her and be like, hey, there's some details I'm missing.
Obviously it was back in middle school, so I didn't know much about it.
So I wanted to hear a little bit more of her side of the story and hear a lot more about it.
And one of the things she told me is she remembers the urgency she had.
She remembers talking to God, asking, Lord, just please keep her alive until I get there.
It was that urgent.
She thought it was the end.
My mom did end up making it in time before my grandma got worse.
And I want to put a pause on that story.
And the whole purpose of why I told you this is not to discourage, but to point to something very glaringly obvious.
Some of the most uncomfortable moments in life don't come with a warning.
Some of the most uncomfortable moments in life don't come with a flashing, hey, this is about to come up.
It's like everything one day is all fine and dandy.
Life is all good.
It's normal.
There's a routine.
There's structure.
It's predictable.
And then all of a sudden, something shifts.
Something changes.
The conversation you never thought you'd have.
the phone call that came out of absolutely nowhere.
A season of life that feels hotter, heavier, and harder than anything you signed up for.
Then almost in second nature, we start asking ourselves the same question, why is this happening to me?
Now of all times, why is this happening to me?
Here's what I know that when life heats up, our first assumption is usually that something has gone wrong.
We think, man, I must have missed something.
Someone must have happened and it probably just went right over my head.
Maybe I must have messed up.
I had to have.
There's no way this would be happening if I didn't do something wrong.
We might think God must be trying to get my attention or trying to punish me.
But this morning, as we dive into this one word, I'd like to propose something to you.
What if the heat isn't a sign of God's absence?
What if the heat of life is God not being there, not showing up?
What if the heat is evidence of his closeness?
When I asked these questions, and as I was planning this out, I think about silver being burned so it can be molded.
So all the things can happen.
From the outside, it just looks hot, bright red.
It's like it looks violent, almost unnecessary.
Smoke rises, impurities start to surface.
What was once solid now begins to soften.
If the silver could speak in these moments, it would probably cry out, this is too much.
Take me out of the fire.
But what if the fire isn't there to destroy the silver?
What if the fire is there to reveal something else?
Because there's a kind of work that can only happen under pressure.
There's a level of transformation that only takes place in heat.
And there's a kind of beauty that can only be formed when someone is willing to stay in the fire long enough.
We become like the silver.
We think being in the fire is too much.
And we tell God, this is too much.
Take me out.
I'm done.
I don't want to deal with this anymore.
We pray for God to change the circumstance.
But what if friends, what if God's greatest desire is to change us?
What if this year, this 2026, rather than asking God to make life easier, we allowed him to make us pure.
And that's where we're gonna be in our scripture this morning.
If you have your paper Bibles, if you've got your Bible app, tapped a little tap tag, it's also gonna be on the screen as well.
But we're gonna be in two different places.
We're gonna start in Luke 22, and then John 21 later, if you have your paper Bibles.
So before we start reading, man, I gotta ask the question.
Who has a favorite disciple?
Anybody?
If you study scripture long enough, nobody?
None of you?
Like cool, like we talk about Jesus a lot.
Listen, I get it.
He is the guy, right?
But like these disciples, they're just like us.
They have the Holy Spirit in them.
They're pretty cool guys, right?
And so I was actually, why it's not here, but I was talking to Wyatt about it the other day.
I am a John guy.
I am by far a John guy.
I love John.
He is so cool.
So much of the information from the gospels that we get about Jesus.
There's so much of it that is, it's similar in Matthew, Mark and Luke, but John brings so much new information that we wouldn't have if it weren't for John.
And so those details, those stories in John's gospels, they are not found in any of the other gospels.
I also love John because he also puts his own personal touch.
He's a funny guy, all right?
Because you'll see the little details.
At the end of John 6, you'll see Jesus saying that I chose the 12 of you, but one of you is a devil.
And then he just goes in and just spoils the whole thing.
It's Judas, by the way.
He's the rat.
That guy, yeah.
Oh, Judas, right?
Or in another part of it in John 20, or in other parts, he calls himself
the disciple whom Jesus loved most.
Or even he'll call himself the other disciple who beat Peter in a race to the tomb in John 20.
Listen, like listen, John, we know your humble, just say the thing, come on, we know.
And so it's just stuff like that.
But if John didn't exist, my favorite disciple would probably be Peter.
Because Peter, man, I've been studying, of course, studying scripture.
I've been studying early church history.
Man, Peter was the guy.
Peter was the first one to confess that Jesus was the Messiah, which is the reason his name went from Simon to Peter or Rock, right?
So he's the rock, not doing Johnson, but, right?
And so Peter is the only disciple who was given the keys to the kingdom of heaven in Matthew 16.
And Peter would eventually become the leader of the apostles.
This guy Peter was a big deal, right?
And so this is where we start in Luke 22, if you got your Bibles out.
And so Jesus
This is in the moment of the story that Jesus is about to get arrested.
He's about to be tortured and he's about to be killed.
And Jesus is just laying it down for Peter pretty directly.
Here's what to happen.
And this is where we start in verse 31.
Verse 31 is where we start.
Simon, Simon, Satan has asked to sift all of you as wheat.
But I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith may not fail.
And when you have turned back,
strengthen your brothers.
I want to stop there for a moment.
I want to bring back something that Chris taught on a little while ago, the sifting the wheat thing, right?
So sifting involved threshing, beating wheat to loosen kernels from stalks, then tossing it in the air, which is winnowing, so that the wind could blow away the light, useless chaff.
You all remember when we talked about chaff a little while ago?
Chaff is exactly right, it's useless, and it's leaving the heavy good
And so when Jesus is saying Satan has asked to sift all of you as weak, what he's saying is Satan's trying to destroy your faith.
He's trying to break you down, scatter all of you just like the useless chaff.
Jesus knows that as soon as he's arrested, the disciples are about to do their own thing.
They're about to get out of dodge once he's on that cross.
He's telling Peter that he's been praying for his faith
as that's about to go down.
Verse 33, but he replied, Lord, I am ready to go to prison with you to prison and to death.
Like Jesus, what?
Hold on.
You called me the rock.
Like what are you saying right now?
You think I'm going to desert you?
When all this goes down.
I'm going with you to the grave dude.
I'm going with you to prison You you know that I had never had to doubt my faith I told you you're the Messiah before anyone else knew The scriptures didn't reveal it your father in heaven your dad told me this You think I'm gonna leave you Verse 34 Jesus answered I tell you Peter before the rooster crows today You will deny me
you would die three times that you know me.
Man, I'm just resonating with Peter in this moment because I think he feels the heat of everything that's about to go down.
It's like a fire and he's not going down without a fight to put it out.
Peter's confident, he's sincere, he loves Jesus, but he overestimates his own strength.
I mean, you said it, Lord, I'm ready to go to go with you to prison and to death
Here's what I know.
Sometimes God refines us not because we're fake, but because we're unfinished.
Here's the thing about Peter.
Peter wasn't fake.
He was unfinished.
An unfinished faith always gets exposed in the fire.
And then,
Oh, Pete, we know the story, right?
Later on that night, he does exactly what Jesus told him he was going to do.
He goes on to deny Jesus three times.
And man, I'm looking back at this and I think, man, we give Peter a lot of flack because he denied Jesus.
We say things like, I would never do that.
And then you know who we sound like?
Peter.
Here's the thing we must understand.
The denial isn't just failure.
It's exposure.
The fire burns away Peter's self-reliance, his own self-righteousness.
And then this last part that I think we skip over a lot and we don't understand it is verse 61 and 62.
The Lord turned and looked straight up Peter.
Then Peter remembered the word the Lord had spoken to him before the roost or crows today.
You will disown me three times and he went outside and wept bitterly.
When he looks at Jesus after the third, when Jesus looks at Peter after the third denial, it's not shame.
It's truth.
Truth hurts, but truth also purifies.
Satan has asked to sift you all as we, but I have prayed for you.
Jesus doesn't remove the fire.
He redeems the fire.
He doesn't take away the pressure.
He doesn't take away the failure.
He exposes it and he redeems it.
When we're in seasons like this, seasons like this, it's easy to think the thing causing the pain must be the enemy.
But what if the very things we resent are actually the tools God is using?
What if the pain?
What if the circumstance?
We think it's the enemy.
What if God is trying to do something?
A.W.
Tozer tells the story of a man named Rutherford, who in the middle of intense suffering could say, praise God for the hammer, the file, and the furnace.
The hammer is useful, but if the nail could talk,
it would tell a different story.
To the nail, the hammer feels brutal and merciless, pounding it into submission.
And the nail isn't wrong, except for one thing.
It forgets that both the hammer and the nail are held by the same workman.
Once the nail remembers who's holding the hammer, resentment disappears.
The carpenter decides the pressure, the timing, the purpose.
Then there's the file, scraping away rough edges, painful, but the file doesn't decide how much is removed.
The master does.
And finally, the furnace, worst of all,
It burns everything that can be burned and melts everything that can be melted.
And it doesn't stop until the work is finished.
But here's the truth.
The furnace doesn't decide when the fire ends.
The master does.
Peter thought that the enemy was failure.
He thought that the enemy was denial.
But even in that moment, even that moment was the
was still in the hands of the master.
Satan asked to sift Peter like wheat, but Jesus, the master was sovereign over the process.
What feels like the hammer, the file, or the furnace is often just the refiner, the great refiner doing his good work.
Peter's story, although it should be done from here,
He should be counted out.
He should be expelled from the apostles after what he did to Jesus, but it doesn't end there.
This is where we get to John 21, verse 15 through 17.
When they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon son of John, do you love me more than these?
Yes, Lord, he said, you know that I love you.
Jesus said, feed my lambs.
Again, Jesus said, Simon son of John, do you love me?
He answered, yes Lord, do you know that I love you?
Jesus said, take care of my sheep.
And then once again, the third time he said to him, Simon son of John, do you love me?
If you actually look at the Greek, the words love in there are actually different from the first two is a different form of love.
Go back and read it in the Greek.
I'll tell you that now.
The third time he said to him, Simon son of John, do you love me?
Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, do you love me?
He said, Lord, you know all things.
You know that I love you.
Jesus said, feed my sheep.
This is the shoreline after Jesus had been resurrected when Jesus was still hanging out with the apostles after that.
We see the same Peter, same guy.
We see he has a new heart, but most of all, and I think this is the point
we find refined faith.
Jesus restores him publicly because Peter will be leading publicly.
What was now broken, what was now exposed is now usable.
I brought up silver earlier in the message because silver at times is used to represent us in Scripture.
If we go to Malachi three, two and three say this.
for he will be like a blazing fire that refines metal or like a strong soap that bleaches clothes.
He will sit like a refiner of silver burning away the dross.
Do I know what dross means?
Anybody?
No?
What'd you say?
Excess, waste, rubbish.
The things that don't need to be in silver, burning it away.
And then Peter becomes the man who strengthens others, the very thing that Jesus said refinement would produce.
First Peter, one, six through seven.
In all this, you greatly rejoice.
Though now for a little while, you have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials.
Don't miss this.
These have come so that the proven genuineness, can you also genuineness real quick?
That's a lot for me to tell you to say.
Genuineness of your faith of greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by fire may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed.
Peter, the guy who screwed it up, is now encouraging churches.
Encouraging them and showing them on the other side of your hardship on the other side of your circumstance on the other side of the things you're going through right now refinement of the soul is where God does his best work on you He reminds them the result praise glory and honor on to Jesus because he's worthy of it all and That leads us into our big idea for this morning
God refines what he intends to reflect.
Can you all say that with me?
When a refiner is working with silver, he has to bring it to the fire, the furnace, the heat in order to get rid of the dross, the waste, the rubbish, the excess.
Its worthlessness must be burned away.
So it's burning and burning and burning.
So how does the refiner know that it's been fully refined?
The refiner knows it's done when the refiner can see its own reflection in the silver.
The fire stayed until the refiner can see his own reflection.
And God does the same with us.
Some of you may be in the fire right now.
You may be feeling the heat of your circumstance.
of whatever it is you're going through.
There is something in you that requires refining.
And so what does that look like?
Here's a few steps that we can walk through this morning to see that.
To work to see God's refining work.
It first starts with this.
We have to remain in the fire.
It's going to hurt.
Peter, the thing about, I'd like to come back to Peter.
Peter didn't walk away from Jesus forever.
He stayed close enough to be restored.
Here's what I know, friends.
Refinement requires proximity.
If you're not close to the fire, nothing's gonna happen to you.
You're gonna keep your drops.
You're gonna keep your impurities.
You're gonna keep your worthlessness, your dirt.
And that's not what God wants for you.
If we take ourselves out of the furnace, the work that the great refiner is trying to do in us will go unfinished.
Your race isn't finished.
The season you're in is for a reason.
Don't quit the season God has you in.
With that, don't assume discomfort means you're off track.
In fact, it may need to be where you're at.
Definitely don't miss this.
If you're in the fire, it's because God sees something in you that needs to be refined.
There is impurity in you.
There is draw, waste, worthlessness that a son or daughter of the king should not have.
If you're in the fire, it's because God sees something in you that needs to be refined.
And while we're in the fire, this leads us into step two.
Release what the fire reveals.
The thing about being in the furnace is the fire doesn't create impurities.
It exposes them.
Peter's fear and self-reliance came to the surface.
Why?
So God could remove them.
Refinement requires surrender.
What does that look like?
Maybe it's time to start asking what this season that God has you in.
What's it for?
What is this season of life that God has you in revealing to you?
For those of y'all in dating relationships, maybe God is revealing to you that the person you're with is not the right person for you.
Y'all been dating for two years and there's never been a conversation about marriage and there's definitely no ring.
what you waiting for.
Single people, I'm there.
Maybe the pursuit of your next relationship is the reason why you feel so distant from God but so close to your dating apps and your social media.
Maybe if we would turn our pursuit to the God of the universe and know that he takes care of all things and he's gonna work things out for the good of those who love him, that maybe we would stop and realize
It's going to be okay.
And maybe right now I'm in this season because there needs to be some refinement in me.
Married people love y'all, but I got something to say real quick.
Maybe the reason why your marriage isn't going so great is because you have placed your kids, your job, worst of all yourself above your spouse.
And that's not how Christ loved his ride.
Always put your spouse before everybody else except God and that's it.
But the way you love your spouse is how you reflect Christ to the world.
Just saying.
And maybe it's not none of you are in these sections dealing with all this.
Maybe you are and you're just not willing to admit it.
Maybe you got another sin problem.
You just sinned a lot and you have no remorse for it.
And if you do, you've been hiding it for so long, for so long, for so long.
Maybe it's time today that you can find freedom when you confess.
Confess instead of hiding, confess now, because you're only going to make more of a mess.
Hiding is only going to make a fool out of you, yourself, and you.
Confess.
And here's what I know, because scripture says it, you will be forgiven.
You will be forgiven.
Let go of anything that doesn't reflect Christ.
What God reveals, he intends to remove.
Don't miss that.
And then that leads us into step three.
Reflect Christ where you are.
After the fire, after the denial, after all these things, Peter didn't just talk about Jesus.
No.
Peter looked like Jesus.
He was not the same after the refinement.
There was no impurities in that man anymore.
Here's what I know.
Refinement always leads to reflection.
And what does that look like?
It means loving boldly.
Loving boldly here's thing.
It's easy to love those who love you even the Satanists do that You know who it's not heart who is not easy to love people who don't love you People who are against you people who speak badly about you people that persecute you and people that make you want to run up a wall I get it folks, but that's what loving boldly looks like It's not running away.
It's serving them
It means obeying quickly.
I promise you, as you dive more into scripture, you don't have to pray for ways to look like Jesus, you can just do it.
And grain yourself in the Word of God, just like Kim talked about last week.
Represent Christ faithfully, right where you are now.
It's almost like God has you there for a reason.
So we can keep complaining about where we are with our jobs, with all the things going on,
God has you where you are right now for a reason.
And if he didn't want you there, he'd remove you.
Represent Christ faithfully where you are now.
Jesus is not going to give you more if you aren't faithful with what he's put in front of you.
He's not.
So remain in the fire, release what God reveals, and reflect Christ to the world.
God refines what he intends to reflect.
I want to finish the story that I started out with this morning.
My grandma, Mimi, by the grace of God, made it out from the horrible brain tumor that she had, but man, she was never the same.
But in fairness, none of our family was the same after that.
I was talking with my mom the other day as I was preparing for the message, and there were some details about it.
And when that situation happened, it was at that moment
that my mom realized she had known that she was saved, but she had not had a personal relationship with Jesus Christ.
Talk about refinement.
And then my grandpa, man, he was the one that took special care of my grandma when she recovered from all that.
She couldn't do anything by herself anymore.
For the longest time that I'd known about my grandparents' marriage, it was rocky and for the longest time.
But that didn't stop him.
He took death through his part and then sickness and in health for as long as he could.
Till he took his last breath.
He ran his race till God brought him home.
This April will be six years since he's been gone.
And man, there's been a lot of hard days since he's been gone.
And I've grown and I've learned so much since then.
And I just look at this past year alone and I've seen how Christ has refined my heart.
I've been broken to pieces.
I've hurt.
I've longed to be home with Christ forever and to be with my grandpa again.
In the days when depression hits and the enemy tries to take me out of the fight, I am often reminded of one thing before my grandpa got sick with his cancer.
He took such good care of my grandma.
It was almost like it was his last mission that Christ gave him before he went home.
And the last year and the most heartbreaking year of my life, I look at how God has refined to me and I press on for Christ to continue to point out the impurities in me.
God burn away, burn away anything that is in me that is not of you.
I'm done with it.
I press on that I would continue on my race to my very last breath.
I press on that I would look that I would be so refined that I look like Christ every day for the rest of my life.
And so if you're here this morning and you've been going through it, man, I'm sorry for what you're going through, but Christ will be glorified on the other side of this.
There is hope.
There is home on the other side of this.
And so don't be discouraged.
Be encouraged that the God of the universe wants to use you.
But there is something in you that must be burned away until you look just like Christ.
God, we love you.
And we're just so thankful for who you are.
God, you have been so, so good.
God, despite knowing every impure thought about us, every impure part of us, God, you still sent your son Jesus so that we could have eternity with you.
And not only that, you call us to walk with you daily, what a privilege that is, what an honor.
And Lord, as we go into the rest of this year of only this beginning of this long year, Lord, I pray that you would mold us, that you would refine us, that you would change us from the inside out,
Lord, if there is anything in us that is not of you, put us to the flame, refine us, change us, mold us until we look just like you.
In a world with only bad news of murder, of all these things that are going on, there is only one hope.
And his name is Jesus Christ.
And so Lord,
Make us into your vessels, make us like silver, and burn away anything that is not of you until we look like you.
It's in the wonderful, the beautiful, the mighty name of Jesus that I pray.
Amen.
Love you church.
Service is over, but church does not go.
Be the church.